Using Ballast
=============

1. Ballast client

    1.1. SSH Balancing

        The Ballast client is intended for use on bastion and internal
        hosts.  Users need only know the defined balancing aliases.
        To connect via ssh to a given alias, the user simply invokes ssh
        to that alias.  For example:

            ssh foo

        would connect to one of the hosts associated with alias "foo".
        To connect to the last host the user connected to via the
        balancer, the user can append "-last" to the alias name.
        For example:

            ssh foo-last

        would connect to the last host returned to the user for alias
        "foo".

        While the client can be used directly from beyond an
        organization's perimeter (assuming the server's listening port
        is accessible), client requests to the server are unencrypted so
        are subject to modification if an attacker has control of the
        network along the path from client to server.  The danger of
        this scenario is a modified return value from the server that
        directs the client to connect to a host under the control of the
        attacker, which can then be used to harvest user passwords.
        SSH host key checks, however, should prevent the user from
        accessing unexpected hosts.

        External clients can still effectively connect directly to
        internal balanced hosts using an appropriate ~/.ssh/config
        ProxyCommand through a bastion host as discussed in Section
        4.2.3 of the "INSTALL" document.

    1.2. General-Purpose Balancing

        To list the host that would have been selected for the user,
        the client can be invoked directly with a -l option and the
        chosen alias.  For example:

            ballast -l foo

        would print the host that has been selected for alias "foo" to
        the terminal instead of connecting to it.  This functionality
        allows Ballast to act as a general-purpose load balancing
        solution beyond just SSH.  This functionality is also useful for
        testing purposes.


2. Ballast server

    The ballast-dumpdb program can be used to display the load
    information stored in the server's database.  It takes a single
    optional argument, which is a regular expression that can be used to
    filter the output.  For example, to see all load information
    associated with a host foo1, the following command can be issued:

        ballast-dumpdb foo1:

    Some values are computed on the fly so will not be listed in the
    database.  These include client_ip, random, user_*, and *_rank.

